@chapter Installation Instructions
@section Contents

The following packages are included in the full release:

Cygnus Developer's Kit (CDK):
binutils, bison, byacc, dejagnu, diff, expect, flex, gas, gcc, gdb,
itcl, ld, libg++, libstdc++, make, patch, tcl, tix, tk

user tools:
ash, bash, diff, fileutils, findutils, gawk, grep, gzip, m4, sed,
shellutils, tar, textutils, time

The user tools release only contains the user tools.

Full source code is available for these tools.  It is split into
these two units.  Ash is provided separately for now.

@section Installing the binary release:

Important!  Be sure to move out of the way any older versions of
the gnu-win32 tools that exist in your $PATH (or delete them).

Connect to one of the ftp servers listed above and cd to the directory
containing the latest release.  On our primary server, that would be:

@file{ftp://go.cygnus.com/pub/ftp.cygnus.com/gnu-win32/latest}.

If you want the development tools and the programs necessary to run
the GNU configure mechanism, you should download the whole release
called @file{cdk.exe}.  If you only care about the user tools listed
above, download @file{usertools.exe}.

If you have an unreliable connection, download the binary in
smaller chunks instead.  For the split cdk installer, get the files in
the @file{cdk-split} subdirectory.  Once downloaded, combine the split
files at the command prompt by doing a:

@smallexample
copy /b xaa + xab + xac + ... + xai + xaj cdk.exe
del xa*.*
@end smallexample

The same process can be used for the user tools.

Once you have an install executable on your system, run it.
First off, the installer will prompt you for a location to
extract the temporary files it needs to install the release on your
system.  The default should be fine for most people.

Next it will ask you to choose a default install location,
@file{<system-drive>:\cygnus\b19}.  Feel free to choose another
location if you would prefer.

Finally, it will ask you for the name of the Program Files folder
shortcut to add.  The default is @file{Cygwin32 Beta 19}.  When this
step is completed, it will install the tools and exit.

At this point, you should be able to look under the start menu and
select "Cygwin32 Beta 19" (or whatever you named it).  This will
pop up a bash shell with all special environment variables set up
for you.  If you are running Windows 95 and are faced with the error
message "Out of environment space", you need to increase the amount
of environment space in your config.sys and try again.  Adding the line
@code{shell=C:\command.com /e:4096 /p} should do the trick if @code{C:}
is your system drive letter.

There are two remaining thing you should do from this prompt.
First, you need to type @code{mkdir -p /tmp} to ensure that a
temp directory exists for programs that expect to find one there.

Second, if you are installing the full distribution (@file{cdk.exe}),
various programs will need to be able to find @file{/bin/sh}.  You
should @file{mkdir -p /bin} and put a copy of @file{sh.exe} there,
removing the older version, if present.  You can use the @file{mount}
utility to select which drive letter is mounted as @file{/}. See the
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) file for more information on
@file{mount}.

And you should be done!

If you should ever want to uninstall the tools, you may do so
via the "Add/Remove Programs" control panel.

@section Updating to GNU-Win32 Beta 19.1

An update to the Cygwin32 library is available from the GNU-Win32
ftp sites in the directory gnu-win32-b19/b19.1-update.  This fixes
several serious problems (including general instability under Win 95 and
some network communication problems visible under both 95 and NT).
There is a README file in the directory that explains how to install
the update.

@section Installing the source code

Before downloading the source code corresponding to the release,
you should install the latest release of the tools (either the full
release or just the user tools).

Create the directory that will house the source code.  @file{cd}
there.

Connect to one of the ftp servers listed above and cd to the directory
containing the latest release.  On our primary server, that would be:

@file{ftp://go.cygnus.com/pub/ftp.cygnus.com/gnu-win32/latest}.

If you want the user tools source code, @file{cd} into the
@file{usertools-src} subdirectory.  Download the files there.  If you
want the Cygnus Developer's Kit sources, @file{cd} into the
@file{cdk-src} subdirectory.  Download the files there.

Back in the command.com, for the user tools source:

@smallexample
copy /b xba + xbb + xbc + xbd + xbe + xbf + xbg usersrc.tar.gz
del xb*.*
gunzip -d usersrc.tar.gz
tar xvf usersrc.tar
@end smallexample

For the compiler tools source:

@smallexample
copy /b xca + xcb + xcc + xcd + ... + xck + xcl cdksrc.tar.gz
del xc*.*
gunzip -d cdksrc.tar.gz
tar xvf cdksrc.tar
@end smallexample

Both will expand into a directory called @file{src}.

And you should be done...

